v5.11.12 (#36443)
mui/material-ui: CHANGELOG.md

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.11.12

<!-- generated comparing v5.11.11..master -->

_Mar 6, 2023_

A big thanks to the 17 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- @michaldudak added the multiselect functionality to SelectUnstyled (#36274)

> - @mnajdova updated `extendTheme` so that it can generate CSS variables with default values. This means that the `CssVarsProvider` is no longer required for Joy UI (for the default styles) (#35739)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- @mnajdova updated `extendTheme` so that it can generate CSS variables with default values. This means that the `CssVarsProvider` is no longer required for Joy UI when using the default theme (#35739)
```

- other 🐛 bug fixes and 📚 documentation improvements.

### `@mui/material@5.11.12`

- &#8203;<!-- 30 -->[Autocomplete] Fix list scrolls to the top when new data is added on touch devices (#36231) @SaidMarar
- &#8203;<!-- 29 -->[Autocomplete] Add `Mui-expanded` class (#33312) @Osman-Sodefa
- &#8203;<!-- 24 -->[Dialog] Use the `id` prop provided to the `DialogTitle` component (#36353) @Kundan28
- &#8203;<!-- 07 -->[Menu] Fix Menu Paper styles overriding in the theme (#36316) @Paatus

### `@mui/lab@5.0.0-alpha.122`

- &#8203;<!-- 05 -->[TreeView] Fix Tree View inside shadow root crashes (#36225) @NoFr1ends

### `@mui/material@5.11.12`

> #### Breaking changes

Reviewer: Maybe it's better if we move this to MUI System, as it indirectly affects both Joy UI and Material UI.

  ```diff
   import {
      unstable_createCssVarsProvider as createCssVarsProvider,
  +   unstable_createCssVarsTheme as createCssVarsTheme,
   } from '@mui/system';

   const { CssVarsProvider } = createCssVarsProvider({
  -  theme: {
  +  theme: createCssVarsTheme({
       colorSchemes: {
         light: {
           typography: {
             htmlFontSize: '16px',
             h1: {
               fontSize: '1rem',
               fontWeight: 500,
             },
           },
         },
       },
  +    shouldSkipGeneratingVar: (keys) => keys[0] === 'typography' && keys[1] === 'h1',
  -  },
  +  }),
     defaultColorScheme: 'light',
  -  shouldSkipGeneratingVar: (keys) => keys[0] === 'typography' && keys[1] === 'h1',
  });
  ```

  Or you can define it directly in the theme prop:

  ```diff
   <CssVarsProvider 
  +   theme={createCssVarsProvider({ 
  +    // other theme keys
  +    shouldSkipGeneratingVar: (keys) => keys[0] === 'typography' && keys[1] === 'h1'
  +   })} />
  ```

>   We want to clarify that this breaking change is introduced to an experimental API, which isn't against our release policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This breaking change **only** affects experimental APIs
```

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.11.12

<!-- generated comparing v5.11.11..master -->

_Mar 6, 2023_

A big thanks to the 17 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- @michaldudak added the multiselect functionality to SelectUnstyled (#36274)

> - other 🐛 bug fixes and 📚 documentation improvements.

Reviewer: We can add https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/35739 in the highlights - it's about updating `extendTheme` to generate CSS vars with default values - which makes the CssVarsProvider no longer required for Joy UI (for the default styles)

- &#8203;<!-- 20 -->[docs] Clarify the future plan for integrating MUI Base in Material UI (#36365) @mnajdova
- &#8203;<!-- 19 -->[docs] Improve visual look of loose lists (#36190) @oliviertassinari
- &#8203;<!-- 18 -->[docs] Fix @mui/styles example links (#36331) @oliviertassinari
- &#8203;<!-- 17 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for List component demos (#36382) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 16 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Radio component demos (#36406) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 15 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Checkbox component demos (#36381) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 14 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Select component demos (#36380) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 13 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Typography component demos (#36378) @varunmulay22
- &#8203;<!-- 12 -->[docs][joy] Add typescript demos for `Divider` (#36374) @sai6855
- &#8203;<!-- 11 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Textarea component demos (#36371) @varunmulay22
- &#8203;<!-- 10 -->[docs][joy] Build TS versions for Link component demos (#36366) @hbjORbj

### Core

- &#8203;<!-- 31 -->Revert "Bump rimraf to ^4.1.3" (#36420) @mnajdova

> - &#8203;<!-- 26 -->[core] Generate vars in `extendTheme` (#35739) @mnajdova

Reviewer: Maybe we can move this to the system and include the breaking change from the description.

Reviewer: Also, we should clarify that it is a breaking change on experimental API, which is allowed :)
